>> Brown: NORTH KOREA THREATENED
AGAIN TO STRIKE THE UNITED
STATES WITH NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND
MOVED A MISSILE TO ITS EASTERN
COASTLINE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
UPDATE THE LATEST PROVOCATION
FROM PYONGYANG AND THE REACTION
IN THE U.S. AND ELSEWHERE.
POSSIBLE LINKS BETWEEN A WHITE
SUPREMACIST PRISON GANG AND
RECENT MURDERS OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
>> Woodruff: WE GET THE DETAILS
ON NEW RESEARCH SHOWING THE
SOARING PRICE TAG FOR TREATING
DEMENTIA NOW TOPPING THE COST OF
CANCER AND HEART DISEASE.
>> Brown: FROM THE AFRICAN
NATION OF KENYA: KIRA KAY
REPORTS ON THE RELIGIOUS DIVIDE
IN THE PORT CITY OF MOMBASA.
>> THE SALVATION ARMY IS A
CHRISTIAN CONGREGATION, NESTLED
IN THE HEART OF A PREDOMINANTLY
MUSLIM CITY.
THEIR FAITH HAD NEVER BEEN AN
ISSUE, BUT THAT CHANGED IN
AUGUST LAST YEAR.
>> Woodruff: AND WE TALK WITH
THE SUPREME COURT'S FIRST FEMALE
JUSTICE, SANDRA DAY O'CONNOR
ABOUT THE COURT'S STORIED
HISTORY AS TOLD IN HER NEW BOOK:
"OUT OF ORDER."
>> I THINK PEOPLE KNOW VERY
LITTLE, REALLY, ABOUT THE COURT:
HOW IT WORKS, AND ITS HISTORY.
AND BOTH OF THOSE THINGS ARE
IMPORTANT IN OUR COUNTRY.
>> Brown: AND WE REMEMBER ROGER
EBERT.
THE PULITZER-PRIZE WINNING FILM
CRITIC KNOWN FOR GIVING MOVIES A
SIMPLE THUMBS UP OR DOWN, WHO
DIED TODAY.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Brown: THERE WERE NEW
RUMBLINGS FROM NORTH KOREA
TODAY, AS IT TRIED TO BOLSTER
ITS LATEST THREATS AGAINST THE
U.S. BY MOVING A MISSILE WITH,
QUOTE, "CONSIDERABLE RANGE" TO
ITS EASTERN COAST.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THAT MOVE
CAME FROM SOUTH KOREA'S DEFENSE
MINISTER.
BUT HE ALSO SAID THAT THE
MISSILE WAS NOT CAPABLE OF
REACHING THE UNITED STATES.
>> (translated): AS I SEE, ITS
FIRING RANGE, IT IS NOT AIMED AT
THE U.S. MAINLAND.
WE'RE CLOSELY MONITORING NORTH
KOREA.
WE HAVEN'T FOUND ANY SIGNS OF
ALL-OUT WAR, BUT WE CONSIDER
THAT ITS PROVOCATION IS ALWAYS
POSSIBLE AND WE ARE READY FOR
IT.
>> Brown: PYONGYANG'S NEWEST
PROVOCATION IS PART OF ITS
ONGOING RALLYING CRY AGAINST
JOINT U.S.-SOUTH KOREA MILITARY
EXERCISES ON THE PENINSULA AND
A REACTION TO THE U.N. SECURITY
COUNCIL'S RENUNCIATION OF THE
NORTH KOREA NUCLEAR TEST IN
FEBRUARY.
STATE TELEVISION BROADCAST NORTH
KOREA'S LATEST THREAT AGAINST
THE U.S.
>> (translated): WE WILL COPE
WITH THE U.S. NUCLEAR THREAT
WITH A MERCILESS NUCLEAR ATTACK.
AND WE WILL FACE THE
INFILTRATION WITH A JUSTIFIED
ALL-OUT-WAR.
THIS IS OUR MILITARY AND OUR
PEOPLE'S UNCHANGEABLE STANCE.
THE U.S. AND THOSE FOLLOWERS
SHOULD CLEARLY KNOW THAT
EVERYTHING IS DIFFERENT IN THE
ERA OF RESPECTED KIM JONG UN.
>> Brown: THAT RESPONSE COMES
AFTER THE PENTAGON ANNOUNCED
YESTERDAY IT DEPLOYED A LAND-
BASED MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM TO
GUAM IN RESPONSE TO NORTH
KOREA'S ESCALATING MILITARY
THREATS.
AND FOR A SECOND DAY, THE BORDER
TO A SHARED FACTORY PARK IN
NORTH KOREA REMAINED CLOSED TO
WORKERS FROM THE SOUTH.
SOME SOUTH KOREANS WERE FINALLY
ABLE TO RETURN HOME FROM THE
KAESONG INDUSTRIAL PARK.
THEY EXPRESSED CONCERNS THAT
HEIGHTENED TENSION BETWEEN THE
TWO COUNTRIES WAS TRICKLING DOWN
TO EMPLOYEES STILL AT WORK.
>> (translated): I'M NERVOUS,
OF COURSE SINCE IT WAS
SUSPENDED.
I HOPE IT WOULD BE NORMALIZED
SOON.
BOTH SOUTH AND NORTH KOREAN
WORKERS ARE ALL NERVOUS.
>> Brown: KIM JONG UN'S
ESCALATING RHETORIC, INCLUDING
NEWS THE COUNTRY WOULD BE
RESTARTING ONCE-SHUTTERED
NUCLEAR WEAPON PRODUCTION
FACILITIES, HAS COME UNDER FIRE
FROM THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
TODAY, RUSSIA'S FOREIGN MINISTRY
SPOKESMAN UNDERSCORED NORTH
KOREA'S NUCLEAR INTENTIONS WERE
UNACCEPTABLE.
>> (translated): FOR RUSSIA, A
WE ARE CATEGORICALLY AGAINST
PYONGYANGS'S INDIFFERENCE TO THE
U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL'S
RESOLUTIONS THAT FORM THE BASE
IN THE SPHERE OF NUCLEAR NON-
PROLIFERATION.
THIS RADICALLY COMPLICATES, IF
IT DOESN'T IN PRACTICE SHUT OFF,
THE PROSPECTS FOR RESUMING SIX-
PARTY TALKS TO RESOLVE THE
NUCLEAR ISSUE ON THE KOREAN
PENINSULA.
>> Brown: AND STATE DEPARTMENT
PRESS SECRETARY VICTORIA NULAND
SAID THE U.S. WOULD NOT BACK
DOWN FROM NORTH KOREA'S THATS.RE
>> IT IS INCUMBENT UPON US TO
TAKE PRUDENT STEPS TO DEFEND THE
UNITED STATES, TO DEFEND OUR
ALLIES, TO BE PREPARED FOR A
NECESSARY DETERRENCE, ETC.
THAT IS REFLECTED IN THE MOVES
THAT YOU'VE SEEN FROM THE
PENTAGON, ETC.
THAT SAID, WE CONTINUE TO MAKE
THE CASE THAT IT DOESN'T HAVE TO
GO THIS WAY.
THE D.P.R.K. COULD CHOSE A
DIFFERENT COURSE AND THE
>> Brown: DESPITE THE CALLS TO
DEFUSE HOSTILITIES, NORTH KOREAN
STATE TELEVISION AGAIN AIRED
UNDATED FOOTAGE OF MASS RALLIES
AGAINST THE U.S. AND SOUTH
KOREA.
MARCHERS CHANTED ANTI-AMERICAN
SLOGANS AND CARRIED BANNERS
READING "LET'S DESTROY OUR
MORTAL ENEMY, THE UNITED
STATES."
>> Woodruff: THE HEATED RHETORIC
IS BEING WATCHED CLOSELY ON A
SMALL SOUTH KOREAN ISLAND
TWO MILES FROM THE MARITIME
BORDER WITH NORTH KOREA.
IT IS FROM THERE THAT JOHN
IRVINE OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS" REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THIS REMOTE SOUTH
KOREAN OUTPOST IN THE YELLOW SEA
PAID THE PRICE THE LAST TIME
THIS CONFLICT WENT BEYOND A
SLANGING MATCH.
YEONPYEONG ISLAND LIES JUST OFF
THE NORTH KOREAN COAST AND TWO
AND A HALF YEARS AGO, IT FOUND
ITSELF IN THE CROSS-HAIRS OF THE
ROGUE STATE.
FOUR PEOPLE WOULD BE KILLED.
IN A SINGLE BRAZEN DAYLIGHT
BOMBARDMENT, THE NORTH KOREANS
FIRED ALMOST 200 ARTILLERY
SHELLS AND MISSILES INTO THIS
ISLAND.
THE SOUTH KOREANS HAVE PRESERVED
THESE BOMBED-OUT BUILDINGS AS A
PERMANENT REMINDER OF WHO
THEY'RE DEALING WITH.
THIS CRISIS HAS PERSUADED SOME
RESIDENTS OF YEONPYEONG ISLAND
TO LEAVE.
THOSE STILL HERE HAVE BEEN ON
EDGE, EVER SINCE KIM JUNG-UN WAS
SEEN RALLYING HIS TROOPS ON A
NEARBY NORTH KOREAN ISLAND EARLY
LAST MONTH.
THE IMAGES OF AN ADORING THRONG
WAVING AND WADING THROUGH ICY
WATERS ADDED TO THE WORLD'S
AMUSEMENT BACK THEN.
HOW SERIOUS THINGS HAVE BECOME
SINCE WITH THIS REGION HELD
HOSTAGE TO THE UNKNOWABLE
INTENTIONS OF AN INEXPERIENCED
DESPOT.
THESE ARE DANGEROUS, UNCHARTED
WATERS INDEED.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": NEW WORRIES ABOUT
WHITE SUPREMACISTS; THE HIGH
COSTS OF DEMENA; RTIELIGIOUS
FAULT LINES IN KENYA; FORMER
SUPREME COURT JUSTICE SANDRA DAY
O'CONNOR AND A REMEMBRANCE OF
FILM CRITIC ROGER EBERT.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE GOVERNOR OF
CONNECTICUT HAS NOW SIGNED INTO
LAW SOME OF THE TOUGHEST GUN
CONTROL MEASURES IN THE NATION.
HE MADE IT OFFICIAL AT A SIGNING
CEREMONY IN HARTFORD, SURROUNDED
BY FAMILY MEMBERS OF VICTIMS OF
GUN VIOLENCE, INCLUDING
DECEMBER'S NEWTOWN SCHOOL
MASSACRE.
THE NEW LEGISLATION WILL
RESTRICT SALES OF HIGH-CAPACITY
AMMUNITION CLIPS, AND EXPAND THE
LIST OF GUNS ON THE STATE'S
ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN.
IT ALSO REQUIRES A BACKGROUND
CHECK FOR ALL FIREARMS SALES.
GOVERNOR DANNEL MALLOY HAILED IT
AS A MAJOR STEP IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION.
>> WE HAVE COME TOGETHER IN A
WAY THAT RELATIVELY FEW PLACES
IN OUR NATION HAVE DEMONSTRATED
AN ABILITY TO DO.
IN SOME SENSES, I HOPE THIS IS
AN EXAMPLE TO THE REST OF THE
NATION, CERTAINLY TO OUR LEADERS
IN WASHINGTON WHO SEEM SO DEEPLY
DIVIDED ABOUT AN ISSUE SUCH AS
UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND CHECKS
WHERE THE COUNTRY IS NOT DIVIDED
ITSELF.
>> Sreenivasan: OTHER STATES
LIKE CALIFORNIA, NEW YORK, NEW
JERSEY, AND MASSACHUSETTS HAVE
ALSO IMPOSED TOUGH GUN CONTROL
MEASURES OF THEIR OWN.
CONGRESS IS SLATED TO TAKE UP
GUN LEGISLATION WHEN MEMBERS
RETURN FROM RECESS NEXT WEEK.
THE U.S. ANNOUNCED TODAY IT IS
LOOKING FOR WAYS TO KEEP THE
HUNT FOR A NOTORIOUS AFRICAN
WARLORD ON TRACK.
A RECENT CHANGE IN LEADERSHIP IN
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
MEANT THE SEARCH FOR JOSEPH
KONY, THE LEADER OF THE LORD'S
RESISTANCE ARMY, WAS SUSPENDED.
BUT YESTERDAY, THE
U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCED
A NEW $5 MILLION REWARD FOR ANY
INFORMATION LEADING TO KONY'S
ARREST.
HIS BAND OF WARRIORS ABDUCT
CHILDREN AND ADULTS AND TURN
THEM INTO FIGHTERS AND SEXUAL
SLAVES.
JAPAN'S CENTRAL BANK TOOK A BOLD
STEP TODAY TO STIMULATE ITS
ECONOMY.
THE BANK OF JAPAN ANNOUNCED IT
IS FLOODING ITS FINANCIAL SYSTEM
GOVERNMENT BONDS.
THE MOVE IS DESIGNED TO GET
PEOPLE AND COMPANIES TO BORROW
AND SPEND MORE.
JAPANESE STOCKS SOARED ON THE
NEWS BUT THE YEN SANK.
THE BANK OF JAPAN DECISN SEIONT
STOCKS ON WALL STREET EDGING
SLIGHTLY HIGHER TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED MORE THAN 55 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 14,606.
THE NASDAQ ROSE SIX POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,225.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: WE UPDATE THE STORY
OF TEXAS OFFICIALS SHOT TO DEATH
RECENTLY, AS LAW ENFORCEMENT
INVESTIGATES POSSIBLE TIES
BETWEEN THE MURDERS AND A WHITE
SUPREMACY GROUP.
MOURNERS FILLED THE FIRST
BAPTIST CHURCH OF SUNNYVALE,
OUTSIDE DALLAS, TEXAS THIS
AFTERNOON TO REMEMBER KAUFMAN
COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY MIKE
McLELLAND AND HIS WIFE CYNTHIA.
THE COUPLE WAS FOUND SHOT TO
DEATH INSIDE THEIR HOME OVER THE
WEEKEND.
THEIR MURDERS CAME TWO MONTHS
AFTER THE COUNTY'S ASSISTANT
DISTRICT ATTORNEY MARK HASSE WAS
SHOT AND KILLED.
BEFORE TODAY'S MEMORIAL SERVICE,
TEXAS GOVERNOR RICK PERRY
ANNOUNCED HE HAD DOUBLED THE
REWARD TO $200,000 FOR
INFORMATION LEADING TO ARRESTS
IN BOTH CASES.
>> WE CANNOT REACT WITH FEAR.
WE GOTTA REACT WITH RESOLVE.
AND OUR LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL
AUTHORITIES ARE PURSUING EVERY
LEAD, EXHAUSTING EVERY LINE OF
INQUIRY IN A RELENTLESS PURSUIT
OF THOSE WHO ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR
THESE CRIMES.
>> Woodruff: NO SUSPECTS HAVE
BEEN IDENTIFIED, BUT SOME
ATTENTION HAS TURNED TO A STATE
PRISON GANG-- THE ARYAN
BROTHERHOOD OF TEXAS.
ON TUESDAY, THE ASSISTANT U.S.
ATTORNEY IN HOUSTON WHO WAS TO
HEAD THE PROSECUTION IN A 2012
CASE INVOLVING 34 MEMBERS OF THE
WHITE SUPREMACIST GROUP, STEPPED
ASIDE FROM THAT ROLE.
HE CITED SECURITY CONCERNS,
ACCORDING TO AN ATTORNEY FOR ONE
OF THE DEFENDANTS.
>> I UNDERSTAND WHY SOMEONE
WOULD WANT TO STEP BACK.
AND IT MAKES SENSE TO ME.
ESPECIALLOPWoodruff: THE INDICT,
TIED TO FEDERAL RACKETEERING
CHARGES, WAS ANNOUNCED LAST
NOVEMBER.
STATE OFFICIALS LATER ISSUED A
WARNING THAT THE GROUP WAS
INVOLVED IN ISSUING ORDERS TO
INFLICT MASS CASUALTIES OR DEATH
TO LAW ENFORCEMENT TIED TO THE
CASE.
McLELLAND WAS PART OF A MULTI-
AGENCY TASK FORCE INVOLVED IN
THE INVESTIGATION.
AND IN COLORADO, POLICE CONTINUE
THE SEARCH FOR THOSE TIED TO THE
MURDER OF THE STATE'S PRISONS
CHIEF TOM CLEMENTS, WHO WAS
GUNNED DOWN LAST MONTH.
EX-CONVICT EVAN EBEL WAS ONE OF
THE SUSPECTS.
HE WAS KILLED TWO DAYS AFTER
CLEMENTS' DEATH, DURING A
SHOOTOUT WITH POLICE IN TEXAS.
COLORADO AUTHORITIES ARE NOW
LOOKING FOR TWO OTHER MEN, BOTH
ASSOCIATED WITH THE WHITE
SUPREMACIST PRISON GANG, THE
"TWO ELEVEN CREW."
FOR THE LATEST ON WHAT IS
UNFOLDING IN TEXAS, WE TURN TO
TANYA EISERER, REPORTER WITH THE
"DALLAS MORNING NEWS."
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
TELL US WHAT THE LATEST IS ON
THESE CASES.
>> WELL, AS YOU CAN IMAGINE,
AUTHORITIES ARE STILL WORKING
AROUND THE CLOCK ON THIS
INVESTIGATION.
THEY HAVE NOT IDENTIFIED A
SUSPECT.
IN FACT, THEY HAVE NO SOLID
LEADS ABOUT ANY PARTICULAR
INDIVIDUAL OR INDIVIDUALS WHICH
IS, OF COURSE, OF GREAT CONCERN
GIVEN THE NATURE OF THESE
ASSASSINATIONS.
>> Woodruff: WHEN YOU SAY "NO
SOLID LEADS," LITERALLY NO
EVIDENCE AT ALL?
>> WELL, I KNOW PEOPLE VOVPLED
IN THIS INVESTIGATION AND
THEY'RE RUNNING DOWN HUNDREDS OF
LEADS.
THERE ARE MANY LEADS COMING IN
REGARDING THE ARYAN BROTHERHOOD.
REGARDING POSSIBLE CARTEL
THERE ARE MANY LEADS COMING IN
INVOLVEMENT AS WELL AS OTHER
REGARDING POSSIBLE CARTEL
PEOPLE THAT WERE PROSECUTED BY
INVOLVEMENT AS WELL AS OTHER
THAT OFFICE BUT THEY DON'T HAVE
PEOPLE THAT WERE PROSECUTED BY
ANY EVIDENCE THAT SAYS THIS IS
THAT OFFICE BUT THEY DON'T HAVE
THE PERSON OR THESE ARE THE
ANY EVIDENCE THAT SAYS THIS IS
PEOPLE THAT MIGHT HAVE DONE
THE PERSON OR THESE ARE THE
THIS.
PEOPLE THAT MIGHT HAVE DONE
SO IT'S -- FROM WHAT I'M
THIS.
GATHERING FROM TALKING TO PEOPLE
SO IT'S -- FROM WHAT I'M
JUST LAST NIGHT ONE OFFICIAL
GATHERING FROM TALKING TO PEOPLE
SAID TO ME "IT'S A WHO DONE IT."
JUST LAST NIGHT ONE OFFICIAL
>> Woodruff: SO THE ONLY
SAID TO ME "IT'S A WHO DONE IT."
CONNECTION TO THE ARYAN
>> Woodruff: SO THE ONLY
BROTHERHOOD OF TEXAS AND THIS
CONNECTION TO THE ARYAN
PRISON GANG IS THIS THREAT THAT
BROTHERHOOD OF TEXAS AND THIS
CAME OUT A FEW MONTHS AGO?
PRISON GANG IS THIS THREAT THAT
>> IT'S A LITTLE MORE THAN THAT.
CAME OUT A FEW MONTHS AGO?
YES, THERE WAS THE THREAT THAT
>> IT'S A LITTLE MORE THAN THAT.
CAME OUT IN DECEMBER.
YES, THERE WAS THE THREAT THAT
THERE HAS BEEN SOME LEADS THAT
CAME OUT IN DECEMBER.
INVESTIGATORS HAVE BEEN
THERE HAS BEEN SOME LEADS THAT
FOLLOWING ABOUT THE KAUFMAN
INVESTIGATORS HAVE BEEN
COUNTY OFFICE.
FOLLOWING ABOUT THE KAUFMAN
THEY HAD PROSECUTE ADD FAIRLY
COUNTY OFFICE.
MAJOR CASE LAST YEAR INVOLVING A
THEY HAD PROSECUTE ADD FAIRLY
HIGH-RANKING ARYAN BROTHERHOOD
MAJOR CASE LAST YEAR INVOLVING A
MEMBER AND SO THERE HAVE BEEN
HIGH-RANKING ARYAN BROTHERHOOD
SOME TIPS THAT PERHAPS IT'S
MEMBER AND SO THERE HAVE BEEN
LINKED TO THAT CASE BUT TO SAY
SOME TIPS THAT PERHAPS IT'S
THAT THEY'VE DEVELOPED SOLID
LINKED TO THAT CASE BUT TO SAY
EVIDENCE OF IT, I CAN'T SAY
THAT THEY'VE DEVELOPED SOLID
THAT.
EVIDENCE OF IT, I CAN'T SAY
>> Woodruff: TELL US A LITTLE
THAT.
BIT MORE, TANYA EISERER, ABOUT
>> Woodruff: TELL US A LITTLE
THE ARYAN BROTHERHOOD OF TEXAS.
BIT MORE, TANYA EISERER, ABOUT
>> WELL, THEY'RE OBVIOUSLY A
THE ARYAN BROTHERHOOD OF TEXAS.
VERY VIOLENT GROUP.
>> WELL, THEY'RE OBVIOUSLY A
THEY WERE FORMED IN TEXAS
VERY VIOLENT GROUP.
PRISONS IN THE '80s.
THEY WERE FORMED IN TEXAS
THEY MODELED THEMSELVES AFTER A
PRISONS IN THE '80s.
CALIFORNIA GROUP.
THEY MODELED THEMSELVES AFTER A
THEY ARE PRIMARILY INVOLVED IN
CALIFORNIA GROUP.
METH DEALING AND THEY ARE KNOWN
THEY ARE PRIMARILY INVOLVED IN
FOR BEING PARTICULARLY BRUTAL IN
METH DEALING AND THEY ARE KNOWN
THE WAY THEY DO THEIR BUSINESS.
FOR BEING PARTICULARLY BRUTAL IN
>> Woodruff: AND ACTIVE,
THE WAY THEY DO THEIR BUSINESS.
OBVIOUSLY, INSIDE THE PRISONS
>> Woodruff: AND ACTIVE,
BUT WHAT'S THEIR RECORD OUTSIDE
OBVIOUSLY, INSIDE THE PRISONS
PRISON?
BUT WHAT'S THEIR RECORD OUTSIDE
>> WELL, IN THE INDICTMENTS THAT
PRISON?
WERE HANDED DOWN IN HOUSTON,
>> WELL, IN THE INDICTMENTS THAT
THOSE INVOLVED A NUMBER OF
WERE HANDED DOWN IN HOUSTON,
MURDERS OUTSIDE OF PRISON.
THOSE INVOLVED A NUMBER OF
AND, IN FACT, VERY VICIOUS
MURDERS OUTSIDE OF PRISON.
MURDERS AND WITHIN THOSE
AND, IN FACT, VERY VICIOUS
INDICTMENTS THERE WERE A NUMBER
MURDERS AND WITHIN THOSE
OF THREATS THAT INVOLVED LAW
INDICTMENTS THERE WERE A NUMBER
ENFORCEMENT AND THREATS TO KILL
OF THREATS THAT INVOLVED LAW
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND IN THE
ENFORCEMENT AND THREATS TO KILL
KAUFMAN COUNTY CASE THOSE
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND IN THE
INVOLVEED A PRETTY BRUTAL
KAUFMAN COUNTY CASE THOSE
KIDNAPING WHERE THIS CAPTAIN
INVOLVEED A PRETTY BRUTAL
WANTED TO KILL THIS GUY BECAUSE
KIDNAPING WHERE THIS CAPTAIN
HE WANTED OUT OF THE GROUP.
WANTED TO KILL THIS GUY BECAUSE
>> Woodruff: TELL US, DO YOU
HE WANTED OUT OF THE GROUP.
KNOW ANY MORE ABOUT THIS HOUSTON
>> Woodruff: TELL US, DO YOU
ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEY THAT'S
KNOW ANY MORE ABOUT THIS HOUSTON
RECUSED HIMSELF OR SAID HE WON'T
ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEY THAT'S
PART OF THIS ANYMORE?
RECUSED HIMSELF OR SAID HE WON'T
>> YEAH.
PART OF THIS ANYMORE?
HE BASICALLY SENT AN E-MAIL TO
>> YEAH.
ALL OF THE ATTORNEYS THAT WERE
HE BASICALLY SENT AN E-MAIL TO
INVOLVED IN THAT INVESTIGATION
ALL OF THE ATTORNEYS THAT WERE
-- IN THAT CASE TUESDAY MORNING
INVOLVED IN THAT INVESTIGATION
TELLING NAME HE HAD DECIDED TO
-- IN THAT CASE TUESDAY MORNING
REMOVE HIMSELF FROM THE CASE AND
TELLING NAME HE HAD DECIDED TO
HE CITED SECURITY CONCERNS.
REMOVE HIMSELF FROM THE CASE AND
I SPOKE TO A NUMBER OF THE
HE CITED SECURITY CONCERNS.
ATTORNEYS IN THAT CASE AND THEY
I SPOKE TO A NUMBER OF THE
SAID THAT HE DIDN'T -- HE WASN'T
ATTORNEYS IN THAT CASE AND THEY
SPECIFIC ABOUT WHAT THOSE
SAID THAT HE DIDN'T -- HE WASN'T
CONCERNS WERE.
SPECIFIC ABOUT WHAT THOSE
>> Woodruff: SO IT'S NOT KNOWN
CONCERNS WERE.
WHETHER THERE'S ANY CONNECTION
>> Woodruff: SO IT'S NOT KNOWN
TO THE ARYAN BROTHERHOOD OF
WHETHER THERE'S ANY CONNECTION
TEXAS OR ANY OTHER PARTICULAR
TO THE ARYAN BROTHERHOOD OF
GROUP?
TEXAS OR ANY OTHER PARTICULAR
>> HE'S OBVIOUSLY INVOLVED IN
GROUP?
THE PROSECUTION OF THE ARYAN
>> HE'S OBVIOUSLY INVOLVED IN
BROTHERHOOD SO OBVIOUSLY HE MUST
THE PROSECUTION OF THE ARYAN
HAVE HAD SOME CONCERN.
BROTHERHOOD SO OBVIOUSLY HE MUST
NOW THE, THE QUESTION IS DID HE
HAVE HAD SOME CONCERN.
RECEIVE A SPECIFIC THREAT?
NOW THE, THE QUESTION IS DID HE
WE DON'T KNOW.
RECEIVE A SPECIFIC THREAT?
BUT WHAT SOME LAW ENFORCEMENT
WE DON'T KNOW.
OFFICIALS HAVE TOLD SHE THEY'RE
BUT WHAT SOME LAW ENFORCEMENT
REALLY CONCERNED THAT WHEN YOU
OFFICIALS HAVE TOLD SHE THEY'RE
START HAVING PROSECUTORS DROP
REALLY CONCERNED THAT WHEN YOU
OFF CASES THAT SENDS A REALLY
START HAVING PROSECUTORS DROP
BAD MESSAGE TO THE CRIMINALS OUT
OFF CASES THAT SENDS A REALLY
THERE.
BAD MESSAGE TO THE CRIMINALS OUT
>> Woodruff: IS THERE ANY SENSE
THERE.
THAT THERE MAY BE MORE LAW
>> Woodruff: IS THERE ANY SENSE
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS WHO TAKE
THAT THERE MAY BE MORE LAW
THEMSELVES OUT OF THIS
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS WHO TAKE
INVESTIGATION?
THEMSELVES OUT OF THIS
OUT OF THIS PROCESS?
INVESTIGATION?
>> WE HAVEN'T HEARD ANY REPORTS
OUT OF THIS PROCESS?
OF THAT.
>> WE HAVEN'T HEARD ANY REPORTS
I HAVE HAD A NUMBER OF PEOPLE
OF THAT.
WHO SIMPLY DON'T WANT THEIR
I HAVE HAD A NUMBER OF PEOPLE
NAMES IN THE PAPER.
WHO SIMPLY DON'T WANT THEIR
PEOPLE IN THE PAST THAT WOULD
NAMES IN THE PAPER.
HAVE BEEN FINE WITH HAVING THEIR
PEOPLE IN THE PAST THAT WOULD
NAMES USED, THERE'S A LOT OF
HAVE BEEN FINE WITH HAVING THEIR
CONCERN PEOPLE DON'T KNOW --
NAMES USED, THERE'S A LOT OF
OBVIOUSLY YOU HAD THE
CONCERN PEOPLE DON'T KNOW --
McCLELLANDS KILLS AND MARK HASSE
OBVIOUSLY YOU HAD THE
KILLED BUT WE DON'T KNOW IF
McCLELLANDS KILLS AND MARK HASSE
THERE ARE OTHER TARGETS OUT
KILLED BUT WE DON'T KNOW IF
THERE.
THERE ARE OTHER TARGETS OUT
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED
THERE.
CARTEL, I ASSUME YOU MEANT
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED
MEXICAN DRUG CARTEL OR CRIMINAL
CARTEL, I ASSUME YOU MEANT
CARTEL EARLIER.
MEXICAN DRUG CARTEL OR CRIMINAL
TELL US WHAT'S KNOWN ABOUT ANY
CARTEL EARLIER.
INVOLVEMENT THEY MAY HAVE IN
TELL US WHAT'S KNOWN ABOUT ANY
THIS.
INVOLVEMENT THEY MAY HAVE IN
>> WELL, THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
THIS.
TIPS RELATED TO THE MEXICAN
>> WELL, THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
CARTELS AND PERHAPS THAT SOME OF
TIPS RELATED TO THE MEXICAN
THE CASES THAT KAUFMAN COUNTY
CARTELS AND PERHAPS THAT SOME OF
HAD PROSECUTED MIGHT HAVE SOME
THE CASES THAT KAUFMAN COUNTY
CARTEL INVOLVEMENT.
HAD PROSECUTED MIGHT HAVE SOME
KAUFMAN COUNTY WAS KNOWN TO BE A
CARTEL INVOLVEMENT.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE THAT
KAUFMAN COUNTY WAS KNOWN TO BE A
WAS VERY TOUGH.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE THAT
I MEAN, THEY DIDN'T CUT SWEET
WAS VERY TOUGH.
DEALS.
I MEAN, THEY DIDN'T CUT SWEET
THEY PRETTY MUCH WENT TO THE
DEALS.
MAT.
THEY PRETTY MUCH WENT TO THE
SO THERE WERE A LOT OF ANGRY
MAT.
CRIMINALS OUT THERE WHO COULD
SO THERE WERE A LOT OF ANGRY
HAVE HAD REASON TO WANT TO HARM
CRIMINALS OUT THERE WHO COULD
SOMEONE IN THE D.A.'S OFFICE.
HAVE HAD REASON TO WANT TO HARM
>> Woodruff: AND FINALLY, TELL
SOMEONE IN THE D.A.'S OFFICE.
US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
>> Woodruff: AND FINALLY, TELL
ADDITIONAL SECURITY THAT IS
US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
BEING PROVIDED LAW ENFORCEMENT
ADDITIONAL SECURITY THAT IS
OFFICIALS IN THE WAKE OF ALL
BEING PROVIDED LAW ENFORCEMENT
THIS IN TEXAS.
OFFICIALS IN THE WAKE OF ALL
>> THEY HAVE AROUND-THE-CLOCK
THIS IN TEXAS.
SECURITY ON MANY -- ON THE
>> THEY HAVE AROUND-THE-CLOCK
MEMBERS OF THE D.A.'S OFFICE AND
SECURITY ON MANY -- ON THE
NOT JUST THEM, THE JUDGES IN
MEMBERS OF THE D.A.'S OFFICE AND
KAUFMAN COUNTY, THE OTHER
NOT JUST THEM, THE JUDGES IN
ELECTED OFFICIALS OUT THERE AND
KAUFMAN COUNTY, THE OTHER
YOU HAVE TO QUESTION -- YOU HAVE
ELECTED OFFICIALS OUT THERE AND
TO WONDER HOW LONG CAN IT
YOU HAVE TO QUESTION -- YOU HAVE
CONTINUE BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY
TO WONDER HOW LONG CAN IT
AROUND-THE-CLOCK SECURITY IS
CONTINUE BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY
VERY EXPENSIVE.
AROUND-THE-CLOCK SECURITY IS
AND WHAT I'M HEARING FROM THE
VERY EXPENSIVE.
PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THIS
AND WHAT I'M HEARING FROM THE
INVESTIGATION IS IT WILL HAVE TO
PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THIS
CONTINUE FOR SOME PERIOD OF TIME
INVESTIGATION IS IT WILL HAVE TO
BECAUSE WE DON'T KNOW WHO IS
CONTINUE FOR SOME PERIOD OF TIME
DOING THIS AND WHY AND ARE THERE
BECAUSE WE DON'T KNOW WHO IS
OTHER TARGETS.
DOING THIS AND WHY AND ARE THERE
>> Woodruff: TANYA EISERER WITH
OTHER TARGETS.
THE DALLAS MORNING NEWS, WE
>> Woodruff: TANYA EISERER WITH
THANK YOU.
THE DALLAS MORNING NEWS, WE
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: NOW, THE RISING TOLL
FROM DEMENTIA-- ECONOMICALLY,
MEDICALLY, AND EMOTIONALLY.
A STUDY BY THE RAND CORPORATION
PUBLISHED IN THIS WEEK'S "NEW
ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE"
ESTIMATES THE COST OF CARING FOR
AMERICANS WITH ALZHEIMER'S AND
OTHER FORMS OF DEMENTIA BETWEEN
$157 BILLION AND $215 BILLION A
YEAR.
ON A PER PERSON BASIS, THAT
TRANSLATES INTO $41,000 TO
$56,000 ANNUALLY.
THE COSTS INCLUDE DIRECT MEDICAL
SPENDING, INFORMAL FAMILY CARE,
LOST PRODUCTIVITY AND
LONG-TERM CARE.
THE LATTER ACCOUNTED FOR 84% OF
TOTAL COSTS.
AND THE PROBLEM IS GROWING FAST:
THE COSTS AND NUMBER OF PEOPLE
WITH DEMENTIA ARE EXPECTED TO
MORE THAN DOUBLE WITHIN
30 YEARS.
WE EXPLORE THE FINDINGS AND
IMPLICATIONS WITH TWO EXPERTS.
DOCTOR RONALD PETERSEN, THE
DIRECTOR OF THE ALZHEIMER'S
RESEARCH CENTER AT THE MAYO
CLINIC.
AND DOCTOR RICHARD HODES, THE
DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTE ON AGING, WHICH
FINANCED THE NEW STUDY.
DR. PETERSEN, LET ME START WITH
YOU.
FIRST, DEFINE DEMENTIA FOR US.
WHAT DOES THAT ENCOMPASS?
>> WELL, DEMENTIA IS AN UMBRELLA
TERM THAT INVOLVES INDIVIDUALS
WHO HAVE A PROBLEM USUALLY WITH
MEMORY AND WITH OTHER THINKING
SKILLS THAT IS OF SUFFICIENT
SEVERITY TO AFFECT THEIR DAILY
FUNCTION.
SO THAT'S DEMENTIA.
NOW, UNDER DEMENTIA WE LOOK FOR
A VARIETY OF CAUSES OF THE
DEMENTIA AND IN AGING, IN 70 AND
80-YEAR-OLD INDIVIDUAL
ALZEHIMER'S DISEASE IS THE MOST
COMMON CAUSE OF THE DEMENTIA.
>> Brown: DR. HODES, WHY THE
VERY STEEP RISE, NOT JUST A RISE
BUT IT'S A VERY STEEP RISE.
WHY IS THAT HAPPENING?
>> WELL, THE PRINCIPAL FACTOR
RESPONSIBLE FOR RISE IS THE
INCREASED NUMBER OF OLDER PEOPLE
AT RISK.
AGE IS, IN EFFECT, THE GREATEST
RISK FACTOR FOR ALZEHIMER'S
DISEASE AND DUE TO SUCCESSES IN
PUBLIC HEALTH AND MANY OTHER
ASPECTS OF OUR ENVIRONMENTS
WE'VE GENERATED AN INCREASE IN
LIFE EXPECTANCY, MORE PEOPLE
GROW TO BE OLD AND THEREFORE
BECOME AT RISK FOR ALZEHIMER'S
DISEASE.
>> Brown: SO THE GOOD NEWS IS WE
LIVE LONGER BUT AS WE DO THIS IS
PART OF THE BAD NEWS?
>> THAT'S PRECISELY RIGHT AND
THAT'S WHY THERE'S SUCH AN
IMPERATIVE TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
IT.
TO MAKE SURE THESE PROJECTION
WHICH IS ASSUME WE WON'T BE ABLE
TO INTERFERE TO SLOW THE
PROGRESSION OF ALZEHIMER'S
DISEASE IS NOT THE CASE SO WE
FOCUSED A GREAT DEAL OF
ATTENTION ON RESEARCH WITH, I
MUST SAY, A GREAT DEAL OF
OPTIMISM AS WELL AS HOPE IN
FINDING WAYS TO PREVENT THAT.
>> Brown: BEFORE WE GET TO THAT
I WANT TO FOCUS MORE ON THE
STUDY, DR. PETERSEN, BECAUSE
THIS STUDY LOOKED AT THE COSTS
AND THAT'S THE KIND OF NEWS HERE
IS THE BALLOONING COSTS.
WHERE ARE THOSE COSTS RISING THE
MOST?
>> WELL, THE COSTS ARE A
COMBINATION OF DIRECT COSTS TO
THE MEDICAL CARE SYSTEM AND THEN
INFORMAL COSTS IN TERMS OF
NURSING HOME CARE, LONG-TERM
CARE, INDIVIDUALS BEING CARED
FOR AT HOME.
IT'S REALLY THE LATTER ASPECT
THAT ESCALATE IT IS COSTS FOR
DEMENTIA CARE OVER THE UPCOMING
YEARS.
THE MEDICAL COSTS RISE AS WELL
BECAUSE PEOPLE WITH DEMENTIA
WILL COST THE SYSTEM MORE THAN
PEOPLE WITHOUT DEMENTIA FOR
OTHER MEDICAL ILLNESSES LIKE
DIABETES BUT THE REAL COST
INCREASE COMES FROM THE CARE
THAT THESE INDIVIDUALS EITHER AT
HOME OR IN A NURSING HOME
ENVIRONMENT.
>> Brown: AND DR. HODES, SOME OF
THAT CARE ESPECIALLY AT HOME
WOULD COME FROM FAMILY MEMBERS
AND WE HAVE AN AGING BABY BOOM
WITH THE INCREASED NUMBER OF
AGING PEOPLE.
>> EXACTLY, ALTHOUGH WE
RECOGNIZE WHAT DIRECT COSTS MEAN
THE COSTS THAT ARE CONSEQUENT TO
PENAL WHO STAY AT HOME AND
PROVIDE CARE OR THE LOSS OF
INCOME FROM THOSE WHO CAN NO
LONGER BE PRODUCT SIEVE HUGE AND
WITH THE BABY BOOM GENERATION
MOVING ON, WE'LL HAVE A LARGER
AND LARGER NUMBER OF OLDER
PEOPLE AND BECAUSE FAMILIES TEND
TO BE SMALLER AND DEMOGRAPHICS
ARE IN THAT DIRECTION THERE WILL
BE FEWER CHILDREN WHO ARE ABLE
TO SUSTAIN THE ROLES THAT ARE
TRADITIONALLY THOSE OF
CAREGIVERS SO FEWER PEOPLE TO
TAKE CARE OF MORE PEOPLE AND AN
AGING POPULATION WITH
ALZEHIMER'S DISEASE.
>> Brown: YOU STARTED TO TALK
ABOUT SOME OF THE DIAGNOSIS AND
TREATMENT.
WHERE ARE WE IN TERMS OF
EFFECTIVE DIAGNOSIS AND
TREATMENT?
>> WELL, THE PAST YEARS HAVE
SEEN REMARKABLE PROGRESS IN THE
NUMBER OF AREAS.
FOR EXAMPLE WE ARE ABLE THROUGH
BIOMARKER STUDIES TO DETECT THE
EARLY PROCESSES IN ALZEHIMER'S
DISEASE YEARS AND DECADES BEFORE
SYMPTOMS APPEAR.
THIS HAS GIVEN HOPE THAT IT MAY
BE POSSIBLE TO TEST INTERVENTION
AT THAT EARLY STAGE BEFORE A
GREAT DEAL OF DAMAGE HAS BEEN
DONE IN THE GRAIN AND BE MORE
EFFECTIVE THAN WE HAVE BEEN TO
DATE.
>> Brown: HOPE BUT WHERE ARE WE
IN THE PROCESS IN ARE WE AT THE
HOPE STAGE OR EARLY RESEARCH?
WHAT DO YOU TELL THE MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE WHO MIGHT BE FACING THIS?
>> RESEARCH IS OVER A SPECTRUM
BUT IT INCLUDES THE INITIATION
OF CLINICAL TRIAL WHICH IS FOR
THE FIRST TIME ARE TESTING
INTERCONVENIENCES, TREATMENTS AT
THIS VERY EARLY STAGE BEFORE
SYMPTOM SYMPTOMS SO IN THE YEARS
TO COME WE WILL LEARN ABOUT
WHETHER THEY ARE EFFECTIVE OR
NOT AND HAVE REAL REASON TO HOPE
WE MAY EXCEED THE PAST
DISAPPOINTMENTS.
>> Brown: DR. PETERSEN, FILL
THAT IN A LITTLE BIT.
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT SITUATION
FOR RESEARCH AND WHAT ARE THE
PARTICULAR CHALLENGES OF
RESEARCH AND TREATMENT OVER
SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
>> WELL, AS DR. HODES SAYS THE
CURRENT DRUGS ON THE MARKET ARE
CALLED SYSTEMATIC DRUGSS.
SO THEY TREAT SOME OF THE
SYMPTOMS OF ALZEHIMER'S DISEASE
BUT WHAT WE REALLY NEED TO HAVE
AN IMPACT ON THIS DISORDER IS TO
HAVE DISEASE-MODIFYING THERAPIES
AND THERE ARE MANY OF THESE.
50 TO 1200 AT ANY GIVEN TIME ARE
UNDER INVESTIGATION BY A VARIETY
OF BIOTECHS, PHARMACEUTICAL
INDUSTRY THESE TRIALS ARE
ONGOING AND IT JUST TAKES ONE
TWO OF THESE TO HIT TO HAVE AN
IMPACT ON THE UNDERLYING DISEASE
PROCESS THAT WILL AFFECT THE
NUMBERS WE'VE SEEN IN THIS STUDY
FROM THE RAND CORPORATION.
>> Brown: I'M IMAGINING THAT
MANY PEOPLE WATCHING THIS HAVE
PERSONAL CONNECTIONS OR CONCERNS
ABOUT THIS.
WHAT DO PEOPLE LOOK FOR?
I'M GOING BACK TO THE DEFINITION
OF SDHAEPL IN A SENSE.
WHAT SHOULD PEOPLE LOOK FOR IN
THEMSELVES AND LOVED ONES WHEN
YOU TALK ABOUT SHORT-TERM MEMORY
LOSS, LONG-TERM MEMORY LOSS.
WHAT ARE THE SIGNALS?
>> WELL, ONE OF THE AREAS OF
PROGRESS IN THE LAST FEW YEARS
HAS BEEN OUR ABILITY TO DETECT
THE DISEASE AT AN EARLIER AND
EARLIER STATE SO WE NOW DON'T
WAIT FOR THE DEMENTIA STAGE BUT
WE ACTUALLY IDENTIFY PEOPLE AT
WHAT'S CALLED THE MILD COGNITIVE
IMPAIRMENT STAGE.
THIS IS A STAGE WHICH N WHICH
PEOPLE ARE FORGETFUL, MORE
FORGETFUL THAN THEY USED TO BE
AND PROBABLY MORE FORGETFUL THAN
THEY OUGHT TO BE FOR THEIR AGE
BUT OTHERWISE THEIR COGNITIVE
AND FUNCTIONAL ABILITIES ARE
PRESERVED.
NEVERTHELESS WHEN WE MARRIED
THESE SUBTLE MEMORY IMPAIRMENTS
WITH BIOMARKERS WE'RE ABLE TO
DETECT THOSE INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
AT RISK FOR DEVELOPING THE
DISEASE.
SO WHAT FAMILIES CAN LOOK FOR IS
UNUSUAL ATYPICAL FORGETFULNESS
IN THEIR FAMILY MEMBER.
SO IF SOMEBODY STARTS FORGETTING
INFORMATION THAT THEY TYPICALLY
WOULD HAVE REMEMBERED WITHOUT
DIFFICULTY: A DOCTOR'S
APPOINTMENT, A GOLF "T" TIME,
THINGS OF THAT NATURE.
AND THEY START DOING THAT ON A
REPEATED BASIS, DOESN'T MEAN
THEY HAVE ALZEHIMER'S DISEASE,
DOESN'T MEAN THEY HAVE MILD
COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENT BUT IT MAY
WARRANT AN EVALUATION BY THEIR
PERSONAL PHYSICIAN TO SEE IF
THERE MIGHT BE OTHER
INTERVENTIONS, TREATSABLE CAUSES
THAT COULD ACCOUNT FOR THOSE
SYMPTOMS.
>> Brown: DR. HODES, COMING BACK
TO THE COST RISE, WHETHER IT'S
PERSONAL COST OR GOVERNMENT COST
ALL KINDS OF INSTITUTIONAL COSTS
WHAT CAN BE DONE?
WHAT CAN BE DONE AS A SOCIETY?
WE JUST TALKED A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT INDIVIDUALLY.
>> WELL, THE UNITED STATES IN
THE PAST TWO YEARS HAS INITIATED
A NATIONAL PLAN AS HAVE OTHER
NATIONS ACROSS THE WORLD WHICH
IS COMPREHENSIVE SO IT CALLS FOR
ACTION AT THE RESEARCH LEVEL BUT
LOOKS FOR WAYS IN WHICH CLINICAL
CARE OF THOSE AFFECTED AND
LONG-TERM CARE AND SUPPORT CAN
BE INITIATED.
SO WE'RE IN AN ERA OF IMPROVED
COORDINATION TO ADDRESS WHAT ARE
JUST ENORMOUS PROBLEMS.
>> Brown: DR. PETERSEN, A LAST
WORD FROM YOU.
WHAT WOULD YOU SAY?
WHAT CAN BE DONE AT THIS POINT?
>> WELL, I THINK THE NATIONAL
ALZHEIMER'S PROJECT ACT THAT LED
TO THE FIRST UNITED STATES PLAN
FOR ALZEHIMER'S DISEASE IS A
MAJOR STEP IN THAT DIRECTION.
THIS THIS PLAN, WHICH WAS
ANNOUNCED LAST MAY, OUTLINED A
BLUEPRINT FOR ATTACKING THIS
DISEASE AT THE PREVENTION LEVEL,
AT THE TREATMENT LEVEL, DEALING
WITH INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES
WHO HAVE THE DISEASE AND HOW
WE'LL MEASURE THIS AS A FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
SO I THINK WE'RE GOING IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION AND HOPEFULLY
WE'LL BE ABLE TO MUSTER
APPROPRIATE RESOURCES FOR IT.
>> Brown: DR. RONALD PETERSEN
AND DR. RICHARD HODES, THANK YOU
BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Brown: ONLINE YOU CAN LEARN
MORE ABOUT GENETIC TESTING AND
YOUR OWN RISK FOR ALZHEIMER'S,
THAT'S ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
>> Woodruff: AND NOW TO KENYA, A
KEY U.S. ALLY.
DURING LAST MONTH'S ELECTIONS,
ONLY ONE PART OF THE COUNTRY SAW
VIOLENCE: THE COASTAL REGION,
WHERE 12 PEOPLE WERE KILLED BY
SEPARATIST INSURGENTS.
AND THE COAST ALSO SUFFERS FROM
A RELIGIOUS DIVIDE-- IT IS A
PREDOMINATELY MUS
OTHERWISE CHRISTIAN NATION.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KIRA KAY
RECENTLY TRAVELED TO THE PORT
CITY OF MOMBASA TO EXPLORE THE
NEW TENSIONS.
>> Reporter: SATURDAY MORNINGS,
THE SALVATION ARMY CHURCH IN
MOMBASA KENYA IS ALIVE WITH
CHOIR PRACTICE.
MUSICAL DIRECTOR CHARLES MUTHAMA
LEADS THE REHEARSAL.
>> WE ARE VERY PROUD OF THIS
CHURCH, WE ARE PROUD OF THE
BAND, IT IS THE ONLY BAND IN THE
COAST, IN THE COAST REGION.
>> Report: THerE SALVATION ARMY
IS A CHRISTIAN CONGREGATION,
NESTLED IN THE HEART OF A
PREDOMINANTLY MUSLIM CITY.
BUT SALVATION ARMY CHURCH MEMBER
MARY IVUSA SAYS THEIR FAITH HAD
NEVER BEEN AN ISSUE.
>> THEY ARE OUR NEIGHBORS HERE,
MOST OF THESE HOUSES YOU SEE
HERE THEY ARE MUSLIMS.
WE HAVE BEEN HERE FOR MANY YEARS
AND WE HAVE NEVER HAD PROBLEMS
WITH THEM.
>> Reporter: BUT THAT CHANGED IN
AUGUST LAST YEAR.
HUNDREDS OF YOUTHS, ANGRY OVER
THE SUSPICIOUS DEATH OF THEIR
CONTROVERSIAL MUSLIM LEADER,
TOOK TO THE STREETS AND ATTACKED
THE SALVATION ARMY CHURCH AND
SEVERAL OTHERS IN THE CITY.
FIVE PEOPLE WERE DEAD, DOZENS
MORE INJURED, PROPERTY WAS
DESTROYED.
>> I FELT SO BAD.
WE HAD WORKED SO HARD.
BUT IN JUST A MINUTE EVERYTHING
WE HAD DONE HAD GONE TO ASHES.
BAND INSTRUMENTS WERE TAKEN,
SOME OF THEM WERE DESTROYED,
SOME OF THEM EVEN SOME OF THEM
WERE THROWN ON THE ROADS.
>> Reporter: THE OVERTLY
RELIGIOUS NATURE OF THE VIOLENCE
WAS UNPRECEDENTED IN A PART OF
THE WORLD ONCE KNOWN FOR CO-
EXISTENCE.
BESIDES ITS MANY MOSQUES,
CATHEDRALS AND TEMPLES DOT
MOMBASA'S STREETS.
THE CITY HAS EAST AFRICA'S
LARGEST PORT AND ITS HISTORIC
OLD TOWN IS A MAGNET FOR
TOURISTS.
BUT HUMAN RIGHTS GROUPS SAY A
PERFECT STORM HAD BEEN BREWING
HERE IN RECENT YEARS, STARTING
WITH THE LONGSTANDING
UNHAPPINESS OF COASTAL RESIDENTS
OVER NEGLECT BY THE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT.
>> THERE HAS BEEN, YOU KNOW,
VERY CLEAR DISCRIMINATION AND
MARGINALIZATION OF THE MUSLIM-
DOMINATED REGIONS.
THAT'S A FACT.
>> Reporter: HUSSEIN KHALID RUNS
THE GROUP MUSLIMS FOR HUMAN
RIGHTS OR MUHURI.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT EDUCATION FOR
EXAMPLE.
OUR REGION REMAINS TO BE THE ONE
WITH THE LEAST NUMBER OF SCHOOLS
PER POPULATION IF YOU COMPARE
THE RATIO.
WE HAVE VERY POOR
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THERE'S NO OTHER REGION THAT HAS
MORE RESOURCES THAN THE COAST,
BUT UNFORTUNATELY, IT RECEIVES
THE LEAST FROM THE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT.
>> Reporter: WHILE MOMBASA'S
GRIEVANCES ARE SHARED BY
RESIDENTS OF ALL FAITHS, KHALID
SAYS PRESSURES ON MUSLIMS IN
PARTICULAR HAVE BEEN STOKED BY
KENYA'S ROLE IN THE GLOBAL WAR
ON TERROR.
KENYA HAS BEEN THE TARGET OF
MAJOR ATTACKS, INCLUDING THE US
EMBASSY BOMBING IN 1998.
AND IT HAS BECOME A SIGNIFICANT
PLAYER IN REGIONAL STABILIZATION
FIGHTING AGAINST THE AL QAEDA-
LINKED MILITANTS AL-SHABAAB IN
NEIGHBORING SOMALIA.
THERE IS EVIDENCE THAT AL-
SHABAAB HAS RECRUITED YOUTH FROM
MOMBASA TO FIGHT AGAINST THE
KENYAN TROOPS AND IT HAS BOMBED
TARGETS ON KENYAN SOIL.
BUT IN RESPONSE, LOCAL KENYAN
POLICE HAVE SOMETIMES EMPLOYED
STRONG ARM TACTICS THAT HAVE
COME UNDER CRITICISM FROM
INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS
GROUPS.
>> EVERY OTHER WEEK YOU HEAR OF
A RAID, POLICE RAIDING A HOME,
PROBABLY HARASSING PEOPLE.
AND THEN A FEW HOURS LATER THEY
WOULD COME BACK AND TELL YOU,
WELL, WE DIDN'T FIND ANYTHING.
AND WHEN A COMMUNITY FEELS WHEN
THEY ARE AGGRIEVED, WHEN THEY
ARE HARASSED, THEN THERE'S NO
WAY THAT SOMEONE WILL COME TO
THEIR AID, THERE'S NO WAY THE
LAW WILL BE USED TO ADDRESS
THEIR ISSUES, THEN YOU FEEL
COMPLETELY HELPLESS.
>> Reporter: A MAIN TARGET OF
KENYAN INVESTIGATORS WAS
CONTROVERSIAL LOCAL SHEIKH ABOUD
ROGO MOHAMMED.
KNOWN FOR HIS ANTI GOVERNMENT
SERMONS AND ON US SANCTIONS
LISTS FOR HIS SUPPORT OF AL-
SHABAAB.
SHEIKH ROGO WORRIED MANY OF
MOMBASA'S OTHER MUSLIM LEADERS,
INCLUDING SHEIKH MUDHAR KHITAMY.
>> WE KNEW THAT THERE WAS GOING
TO BE-- WE ARE HEADED FOR, FOR
BAD THINGS.
BECAUSE THE YOUTHS WERE GIVEN--
THE YOUTHS HAVE GOT VIRGIN MINDS
AND, YOU KNOW, THEY WERE GIVEN
THESE IDEOLOGIES BY THIS
PREACHER.
AND WHEN THIS PARTICULAR
PREACHER WAS ASSASSINATED,
RIGHT, THEN THE SENTIMENTS CAME
OUT.
>> Reporter: ON AUGUST 27th,
SHEH ROIKGO WAS SHOT MORE THAN A
DOZEN TIMES IN BROAD DAYLIGHT
WHILE DRIVING DOWN A MAIN
STREET.
THE SALVATION ARMY CHURCH WAS
NEXT TO ROGO'S MOSQUE AND BECAME
AN EASY TARGET FOR FOLLOWERS WHO
SUSPECTED ROGO WAS ASSASSINATED
BY KENYAN AUTHORITIES.
>> THE YOUTHS WERE AGAINST THE
STATES.
THE STATES, TO THEM, IS
REPRESENTED BY THE CHRISTIAN
FAITH, YOU KNOW.
>> Reporter: FATHER WILYBARD
LAGHO, THE VICAR GENERAL OF
MOMBASA'S CATHOLIC CHURCH, SAYS
HE FEARED REPRISAL ATTACKS FROM
HIS OWN COMMUNITY.
>> ONE NEEDED ONLY TO ATTACK A
MUSLIM MOSQUE AND IT WILL APPEAR
LIKE NOW IT'S A RELIGIOUS
CONFLICT.
>> Reporter: FATHER LAGHO
CONVENED AN EMERGENCY SESSION OF
A GROUP HE CHAIRS CALLED THE
COAST INTERFAITH COUNCIL OF
CLERICS.
SHEIKH KHITAMY IS A MEMBER OF
THE COUNCIL.
>> WE HAD TO COME OUT AND
CONDEMN IN THE MEDIA, IN THE
MOSQUES.
WE WENT ROUND THE MOSQUES,
RIGHT, TO PREACH PEACE.
>> IT IS NOT PART OF THE ISLAMIC
TRADITION.
>> AND WE SAT TOGETHER, WE HAD A
SERIES OF MEETINGS WITH THE
CHURCH LEADERS, WE WENT TO THE
PUBLIC.
AND YOU KNOW, THINGS WENT DOWN.
>> Report: DEerSPITE THESE
SUCCESSFUL EFFORTS TO CALM THE
STREETS, FATHER LAGHO BELIEVES
RADICALISM HAS TAKEN ITS TOLL ON
SOCIETY HERE.
>> THIS RELATIONSHIP HAS BEEN
STRAINED A LOT.
BECAUSE ON THE PART OF
CHRISTIANS, THEY MIGHT NOT BE
ABLE TO DISTINGUISH WHETHER THIS
PARTICULAR MUSLIM IS A RADICAL
MUSLIM OR HE'S A TOLERANT MUSLIM
AND ON THE PART OF THE MUSLIMS
AS WELL, THEY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
DISTINGUISH BETWEEN AN
INTOLERANT CHRISTIAN PREACHER
AND THE MAJORITY WHO ARE VERY
PEACEFUL CHRISTIANS.
>> Reporter: AND SO LAGHOS
COUNCIL REMAINS VIGILANT.
>> THERE IS A BREAKDOWN OF
COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE YOUTH
AND THE ELDER STRUCTURE.
>> Reporter: MEETING REGULARLY
TO SHARE INTELLIGENCE FROM
WITHIN EACH RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY
AND CRAFT RESPONSES WHEN
TENSIONS EMERGE.
>> THE WHOLE CONCEPT OF
INTERFAITH, INTER-RELIGIOUS
DIALOG IS NEW.
IT'S NEW IN THE WORLD.
IT'S NEW IN KENYA.
IT'S NEW IN MOMBASA.
SOME PEOPLE VIEW IT LIKE, ARE
YOU TRYING TO MIX UP RELIGIONS?
THAT MINDSET WILL CHANGE, WITH
TIME.
>> Reporter: SHEIKH ROGOS
ASSASNATISION REMAINS UNSOLVED.
MOMBASA GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
DECLINED OUR REQUESTS FOR
INTERVIEWS BUT DENY ALLEGATIONS
OF POLICE BRUTALITY AND SAY THEY
HAVE APPOINTED A SPECIAL COUNSEL
TO INVESTIGATE ROGOS MURDER.
BUT HUMAN RIGHTS LAWYER HUSSEIN
KHALID IS SKEPTICAL.
>> YOU CANNOT SEND THE POLICE TO
COME AND INVESTIGATE A KILLING
IN WHICH THEY ARE THE PRIME
SUSPECTS.
WE SAY THIS PUBLICLY.
THE POLICE CANNOT INVESTIGATE
THE POLICE.
THE DEATH OF SHEIKH ROGO WILL
REMAIN A MYSTERY FOR MANY YEARS
TO COME, THAT'S FOR SURE.
>> Reporter: KHALID DOES PUT
SOME HOPE IN KENYA'S NEW
CONSTITUTION.
THE COUNTRY'S RECENT ELECTION
PUTS INTO OFFICE LOCAL SENATORS
AND GOVERNORS, WHO SHOULD HAVE A
GREATER SAY OVER COASTAL
POLITICS AND RESOURCES.
IN THE MEANTIME, MUHURI IS
FOCUSING ON AT-RISK YOUTH.
RUWEIDAH OBAMA IS AN OUTREACH
WORKER WITH MUHURI.
>> ONE OF THE BIGGEST CHURCHES
AROUND HERE WAS BURNT BY YOUNG
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS HIGH
UNEMPLOYMENT AND LACK OF
EDUCATION MAKE THE POOR
NEIGHBORHOODS OF MOMBASA FERTILE
RECRUITING GROUNDS FOR AL-
SHABAAB AND OTHER RADICAL
GROUPS.
>> WHEN YOU DON'T HAVE ANYTHING
TO DO, WHAT WILL YOU DO?
YOU'D RATHER JOIN WHOEVER IS
TRYING TO PUSH FOR ISSUES OF
RADICALIZATION, SO YOU WOULD
RATHER JOIN THE GROUP IN ORDER
FOR YOU TO GET SOME LITTLE CASH,
TO HELP YOUR FAMILY.
>> Reporter: TO COUNTER THE LURE
OF RADICAL RECRUITERS, MUHURI
HAS TEAMED UP WITH A LOCAL
THEATER GROUP TO ARE SCTHE YOUTH
STRAIGHT-- THAT JOINING RADICAL
GROUPS CAN LEAD TO INJURY AND
SHAME.
>> I ASK FOFORGR IVENESS FROM
YOU AND DAD, AND PROMISE AS OF
TODAY I WILL NO LONGER BURN
CHURCHES, IF YOU COULD JUST HELP
ME FIND A JOB.
>> SO THIS ONE WAS REPLACED,
THIS IS THE NEW FLAG.
>> Reporter: BACK AT THE
SALVATION ARMY CHURCH,
CONGREGANTS LIKE MARY IVUSA
CONSIDERED THEIR FUTURE.
>> THE SOLDIERS WE HAVE HERE--
WE CALL THEM THE SOLDIERS-- THEY
LIKE THIS PLACE VERY MUCH.
AND WE ALWAYS THINK MAYBE GOD
HAS A PURPOSE FOR US TO STAY
HERE.
>> Reporter: AND SO THEY PICKED
UP THE PIECES, REPAIRING THE
DAMAGE AND ONCE AGAIN FILLING
THEIR HALL WITH MUSIC, BELIEVING
MOMBASA'S HISTORY OF CO-
EXISTENCE WILL PREVAIL OVER
CURRENT PRESSURES.
>> Brown: KIRA KAY'S STORY IS
PART OF OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
BUREAU FOR INTERNATIONAL
REPORTING.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A LOOK AT THE
INNER WORKINGS OF THE SUPREME
COURT, AND HER OWN APPROACH TO
SERVICE THERE, AS TOLD BY FORMER
JUSTICE SANDRA DAY O'CONNOR.
I SAT DOWN WITH HER RECENTLY
TO TALK ABOUT HER NEW BOOK, "OUT
OF ORDER: STORIES FROM THE
HISTORY OF THE SUPREME COURT."
JUSTICE SAP DRAW DAY O'CONNOR,
WELCOME BACK TO THE NEWSHOUR.
>> THANK YOU, I'M HONORED TO BE
HERE.
>> Woodruff: SO THE BOOK OUT OF
ORDER, YOU SUGGESTED THIS WAS
DONE IN AN EFFORT TO BRING THE
SUPREME COURT TO LIFE FOR PEOPLE
WHO VIEW IT AS A SORT OF DISTANT
FORBIDDING PLACE TO MAKE IT MORE
HUMAN.
WHY DID YOU THINK THAT WAS
SNORPT
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW THAT IT IS
BUT I THINK PEOPLE NO VERY
LITTLE, REALLY, ABOUT THE COURT,
HOW IT WORKS AND ITS HISTORY.
AND BOTH OF THOSE THINGS ARE
IMPORTANT IN OUR COUNTRY, BUT
THEY'RE NOT THINGS THAT CITIZENS
KNOW MUCH ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: YOU TELL SO MANY
WONDERFUL STORIES AND WRITE
ABOUT THE COURT IN THE VERY
EARLY DAYS WHEN THE JUSTICES
WERE RIDING CIRCUIT ON HORSE
BACK.
>> THAT WAS A TERRIBLE AND
LENGTHY PERIOD OF TIME FOR THE
COURT!
IMAGINE BEING ASSIGNED FROM SOME
DISTANT PLACE TO BE ON THE COURT
AND THEN ORDERED TO TRAVEL 90%
OF YOUR TIME.
AND THEY HAD NO TRAINS, NO BUSES
NO AIRPLANES AND THEY HAD TO GO
HORSE AND BUGGY OR HORSE BACK.
>> Woodruff: LONG DISTANCE MIGHT
HAVE BEEN A DISQUALIFIER.
>> IT WOULD HAVE BEEN HORRIBLE!
I THINK MOST PEOPLE DIDN'T WANT
TO DO COURT DUTY.
>> Woodruff: YOU ALSO WRITE
ABOUT FASCINATING CHOICES FOR
THE COURT.
ANDREW JACKSON PICKED ONE
JUSTICE WHO RAN FOR PRESIDENT
FOUR TIMES WHILE HE WAS SERVING
ON THE SUPREME COURT.
>> YES, CAN YOU IMAGINE IT WAS
VERY DIFFERENT IN THOSE DAYS,
THAT'S FOR SURE.
>> YOU DID A LOT OF RESEARCH FOR
THE BOOK, JUSTICE O'CONNOR, WAS
THERE -- AS YOU LOOKED AT THE
PRESIDENTS OVER TIME AND HOW
THEY MADE THEIR CHOICES FOR THE
SUPREME COURT WAS THERE A SET OF
QUALITIES OR A SET OF JUDGMENTS
THAT YOU THINK LENT THEMSELVES
TO BETTER CHOICES FOR THE COURT?
>> WELL, YES I CAN PICK OUT A
FEW GROUNDS THAT WOULD IMPROVE
THE CHANCES OF GETTING A GOOD
ONE, BUT I DON'T THINK THAT WAS
PRIMARY IN THE CASE OF MOST
APPOINTMENTS.
I THINK THAT GREAT MANY OF THOSE
APPOINTMENTS WERE REALLY
INFLUENCED A LOT BY THE
POLITICAL SITUATION.
THEY WANTED TO PUT SOMEBODY ON
THAT THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF
THOUGHT WAS POLITICALLY A WISE
CHOICE AND WOULD NOT GIVE HIM
PROBLEMS BY VIRTUE OF POOR
APPOINTMENTS.
I THINK A LOT OF CONSIDERATION
WAS GIVEN TO THINGSKE
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK THAT'S
STILL THE CASE TODAY?
>> MAYBE TO SOME EXTENT BUT MUCH
LESS SO.
>> Woodruff: YOU'VE SPOKEN ABOUT
THIS BEFORE AND THAT IS THE FACT
THAT AMERICAN PUBLIC OPINION OF
THE SUPREME COURT HAS DECLINED.
JUST RECENTLY --
>> APPARENTLY IT HAS.
IT HAS HISTORICALLY FOR MANY
YEARS IT HAD BEEN HIGHER THAN
THAT OF THE OTHER BRANCHES AND
IN VERY RECENT POLLS I'VE SEEN A
RATHER STEEP DECLINE AND IT MAY
RELATE A LITTLE BIT TO THE
BUSH/GORE CASE AND ALL THE
UNPLEASANT PUBLICITY THAT THAT
PRODUCED.
I DON'T KNOW.
YOU MIGHT HAVE A BETTER GUESS
ABOUT IT THAN I DO.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK IN THE
AFTERMATH OF THAT CASE AND OTHER
CONTROVERSIAL CASES LIKE THE
HEALTH CARE DECISION OF LAST
YEAR ON THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
THAT THE COURT COULD DO A BETTER
JOB OF EXPLAINING TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WHY IT DID WHAT
IT DID, INCLUDING IN "BUSH V.
GORE"?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S THE
COURT'S PERCEIVED ROLE TO DO
EXPLAINING OF A POLITICAL
NATURE.
THEY AREN'T POLITICIANS.
THEY AREN'T RUNNING FOR
REELECTION.
AND WHAT THEY DO NEED TO EXPLAIN
IS THE LEGAL REASONING FOR A
PARTICULAR DECISION.
THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE.
BUT IT DOESN'T MAKE FOR VERY
EXCITING READING FOR PEOPLE TO
READ LEGAL TECHNICALITIES.
OFTEN IT TURNS ON THAT.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK IT
MATTERS HOW HIGH THE COURT IS
HELD IN PUBLIC -- IN THE
PUBLIC'S REGARD?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
IT MATTERS TO ME AS A FORMER
MEMBER OF THE COURT.
I LIKE TO THINK THAT THE COURT
WILL CONTINUE TO BE HELD IN HIGH
REGARD BY THE PUBLIC.
I THINK IT SHOULD BE.
IT'S AN INSTITUTION THAT DEPENDS
ON MAKING TOUGH DECISIONS IN
CLOSE CASES FOR REASONS THAT IT
EXPLAINS WELL AND THAT IN THE
PAST, AT LEAST, IS PROVEN
SATISFACTORY TO THE PUBLIC.
>> I NOTICE YOU DID ANOTHER
INTERVIEW WITH RACHEL MADDOW AND
BHS NBC AND SHE ASKS YOU IF YOU
FEEL SOMETIMES THE COURT'S
LEGITIMACY IS THREATENED AND YOU
ANSWERED "IT'S ALWAYS THREATENED
IF THERE'S AN ISSUE OUT THERE IN
WHICH PUBLIC OPINION IS DIVIDED.
YOU WANT TO BE PARTICULARLY
CAREFUL ABOUT HOW YOU DECIDED
NOT TO OFFEND PEOPLE."
HOW DO YOU DECIDE WHICH GROUP
YOU DON'T WANT TO OFFEND?
>> WELL, YOU DON'T WANT TO
OFFEND PARTICULARLY THE
DECISIONS IN MANY CASES BUT THEY
WILL BOTHER A GREAT SEGMENT OF
THE PUBLIC.
OF NECESSITY.
SOME DECISIONS ARE DRAWN BY
PRETTY FINE LINES BUT ON THE
BASIS OF ARGUMENTS THAT DON'T
HAVE MUCH RESONANCE WITH THE
PUBLIC.
SO I THINK IT'S INEVITABLE THAT
SOME OF THE COURT'S DECISIONS
WILL BE BE FOUND BY A SEGMENT OF
THE PUBLIC TO BE -- YOU HAVE TO
ANSWER A QUESTION LIKE IT OR NOT
AND THE QUESTIONS DESERVE VALID
LEGAL RESPONSE EVEN IF THE
RESPONSE ISN'T ONE THAT WILL BE
EASILY UNDERSTOOD.
YOU HAVE AN OBLIGATION AS A
MEMBER OF THE COURT TO DO WHAT
YOU ARE BOUND TO DO UNDER
FEDERAL LAW EVEN IT IS ISN'T AN
ATTRACTIVE RESOLUTION FROM A
PUBLIC STANDPOINT.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO IS ASK
YOU ABOUT -- ONE OF THE THINGS
YOU WRITE ABOUT, JUSTICE
O'CONNOR, IS THE ROLE OF WOMEN,
OF COURSE, IS FIRST ON THE
COURT.
THE FIRST WOMAN JUSTICE.
BUT YOU ALSO WRITE ABOUT THE
ROLE OF WOMEN AS LAW CLERKS,
VERY IMPORTANT -- VERY
APPOINTMENT APPOINTMENTS BY THE
JUSTICES AND HOW THERE HAVE ONLY
BEEN -- I GUESS RECENTLY THERE
HAVE BEEN V ONLY BEEN -- AS FEW
OF A THIRD OF THEM ARE WOMEN BUT
MORE THAN HALF OF THE WOMEN
COMING OUT OF LAW SCHOOL -- OF
THE STUDENTS COMING OUT OF LAW
SCHOOL ARE WOMEN.
WHY -- THE
>> TUM T NUMBER OF --
>> WHY IS IT THAT IT SUSPECT
KEEPING UP WITH IT?
>> IT TOOK A LONG TIME BEFORE
THE COURT TOOK ANY WOMEN LAW
CLERKS.
FINALLY IT DID BUT THE NUMBERS
HAVE NEVER MATCHED VERY
EFFECTIVELY THE PERCENTAGES OF
LAW GRADUATES OUT OF GRADUATING
CLASSES.
WE HAVE FAR MORE THAN WE EVER
DID BEFORE AND IT'S CONTINUED TO
GROW BUT IT ISN'T A NICE MATCH
YET.
>> Pelley: DID YOU DISCUSS THIS
WITH OTHER JUSTICES?
>> I THINK IT COMES UP ON
OCCASION BUT NOT FREQUENTLY.
EACH JUSTICES HIRE THEIR OWN
CLERKS AND APPLICATIONS ARE MADE
INDIVIDUALLY TO THE JUSTICES.
IT ISN'T A GROUP DECISION.
>> Woodruff: WAS IT SOMETHING
THAT WAS IMPORTANT TO YOU TO DO?
TO BRING IN WOMEN?
>> VERY MUCH SO.
VERY MUCH SO.
I LIKE TO HAVE A PRETTY EVEN
DISTRIBUTION-- AND DID.
>> Woodruff: I HAVE ONE LAST
QUESTION BECAUSE ONE OF THE
REVIEWERS I WAS READING OF YOUR
BOOK SAID HE'S STILL LOOKING FOR
BOOK FROM SANDRA DAY O'CONNOR
THAT EXPLAINS HER JUDICIAL
PHILOSOPHY.
IS THAT A BOOK THAT'S COMING?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
>> Woodruff: WHY NOT?
>> BECAUSE I THINK IT'S NOT
NECESSARY I'M NOT ON THE COURT
ANYMORE SO NO USE LOOKING FOR MY
PHILOSOPHY.
IF SOMEBODY'S WAITING FOR THAT,
THEY CAN WAIT FOR ANOTHER
JUSTICE.
>> Woodruff: (LAUGHS)
ALL RIGHT, WE WILL LEAVE IT
THERE.
FORMER JUSTICE SANDRA DAY
O'CONNOR, THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR TALKING WITH US.
THE BOOK IS "OUT OF ORDER:
STORIES FROM THE HISTORY OF THE
SUPREME COURT."
>> AND I DON'T WANT TO BE OUT OF
ORDER ANSWERING ANY QUESTIONS.
>> Woodruff: (LAUGHS)
THANK YOU.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT,
REMEMBERING THE POPULAR AND
PULITZER PRIZE-WINNING FILM
CRITIC AND TELEVISION CO-HOST
ROGER EBERT.
HE DIED TODAY AT AGE 70.
HARI IS BACK WITH THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: EBERT WAS THE
LONGTIME FILM CRITIC FOR THE
"CHICAGO SUN-TIMES" AND WAS
SYNDICATED TO MORE THAN 200
NEWSPAPERS.
HE ALSO BECAME WELL KNOWN FOR
CO-HOSTING A WEEKLY SHOW WITH
FELLOW CRITIC GENE SISKEL.
AND IN 2005, HE RECEIVED A STAR
ON THE HOLLYWOOD WALK OF FAME
AND SPOKE ABOUT HIS LOVE FOR THE
MOVIES.
>> MOVIES ARE THE MOST POWERFUL
INTERESTING MACHINE OF ALL THE
ARTS.
WHEN I GOT TO A GREAT MOVIE I
CAN LIVE SOMEONE ELSE LIFE A
LITTLE BIT FOR A WHILE.
I CAN WALK IN SOMEONE ELSE
SHOES.
I CAN BE A MEMBER OF A DIFFERENT
GENDER, A DIFFERENT RACE, A
DIFFERENT ECONOMIC CLASS, LIVE
IN A DIFFERENT TIME, HAVE
DIFFERENT BELIEF.
>> Sreenivasan: EBERT BEGAN A
LONG BATTLE WITH CANCER IN 2002.
BY 2006, HE LOST THE ABILITY TO
EAT, SPEAK AND DRINK AFTER
SURGERIES FOR THYROID AND
SALIVARY GLAND CANCER.
HE CONTINUED TO REVIEW AND WRITE
ABOUT THE MOVIES AND HIS OWN
ILLNESS ON HIS BLOG AND ON
SOCIAL MEDIA WHERE HE REACHED A
ROBUST NEW AUDIENCE.
ON TUESDAY, HE ANNOUNCED ON HIS
BLOG THAT HIS CANCER HAD
RETURNED.
FOR MORE WE'RE JOINED BY DAVID
EDELSTEIN, A COLLEAGUE AND
FRIEND.
HE'S THE FILM CRITIC FOR "NEW
YORK MAGAZINE" AND FOR NPR'S
"FRESH AIR."
THANKS FOR BEING WITH US.
>> MY PLEASURE.
ON THIS SAD OCCASION.
>> Brown: WHY WAS ROGER EBERT'S
VOICE SO LARGE IN THE FILM
INDUSTRY?
>> IT'S A FUNNY THING.
MOST OF US DON'T REMEMBER IN
EBERT'S EARLY DAYS HE WAS A BIT
OF A HELL RAISER AND A PARTIER,
WENT TO THE PLAYBOY MANSION,
DRANK A LOT.
HE WROTE ABOUT ALL THIS.
BUT WHEN HE SOBERED UP, HE
DECIDED, I THINK, THAT HE WAS
GOING TO BE A PUBLIC FIGURE.
NOW, MOST FILM CRITICS ARE KIND
OF PRIVATE TWISTED LOANERS.
MYSELF INCLUDED.
BUT ROGER ALMOST STYLED HIMSELF
AN AMBASSADOR OF THE MOVIES.
A MAYOR OF MOVIE CRITICVILLE.
AND WHEN HE STARTED THE SHOW HE
-- HE WAS ABLE TO FRAME CERTAIN
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THE MOVIES.
FRAME HIS OWN RESPONSES IN A WAY
THAT BECOME ENORMOUSLY APPEALING
TO GREAT NUMBERS OF PEOPLE
PEOPLE WHO WERE REX REED TYPES
WHO WOULD COME ON TALK SHOWS AND
DROP INSULTS AND GIVE THEIR
OPINIONS.
ROGER HAD A GREAT GIFT FOR BEING
ABLE TO SPEAK IN WHOLE
PARAGRAPHS.
HE KNEW FROM HIS TOPIC SENTENCE
WHAT HIS CONCLUSION WAS GOING TO
BE AND HE WAS GOING TO PULL YOU
INTO THAT WHETHER YOU WERE AN
ELITIST POINTY HEAD OR JUST A
GUY WANTING TO BE ENTERTAINED.
HE COULD COMMUNICATE WITH YOU
WHAT THE JOY OF MOVIES REALLY
WAS.
>> HE STARTED WRITING IN '67, HE
WON IN HIS PEW LITSER IN '75.
HABIT BEEN ON T.V. IN A HALF
DOZEN YEARS BUT HERE'S A GUY WHO
HAS MORE THAN 800,000 FOLLOWERS
ON TWITTER.
HOW DID HE TRANSCEND THESE
GENERATIONS?
>> IT'S AN AMAZING THING.
WHEN HE FIRST STARTED ON T.V.,
REMEMBER, HE WASN'T UNIVERSALLY
LOVED.
HE AND GENE SISKEL WERE -- PENAL
TUNED IN TO SEE THEM BICKER
BECAUSE IT WAS SAID THAT THEY
KIND OF DIDN'T LIKE EACH OTHER
OFF CAMERA.
PEOPLE REFERRED TO THEM
DERISIVELY AS THE FAT GUY AND
THE OTHER ONE.
BUT SLOWLY AS PEOPLE GREW UP
WITH ROGER, AS NEW FANS CAME OF
AGE HE IN PART ALSO BECAUSE OF
HIS PULITZER MANAGED TO ACQUIRE
A LOT OF HER AUTHORITY AND TO
MAKE FILM CRITICISM SERIOUS ON
TELEVISION WHICH IT HADN'T BEEN
AT THAT POINT.
THEN WHAT WAS ABSOLUTELY
STUNNING WAS THAT HIS GREATEST
GIFT WAS HIS VOICE.
HIS ABILITY TO SPEAK
EXTEMPORANEOUSLY.
WHEN HE LOST THAT, HE REINVENTED
HIMSELF.
HE TURNS HIMSELF INTO THIS
AMAZING BLOGGER, MORE PASSIONATE
THAN EVER.
SOMEONE WHOSE VOICE WAS
INFECTIOUS AND WHO EVERYDAY SET
AN EXAMPLE FOR ALL OF US IN WHAT
TO DO WHEN I KNOW LIFE GIVES YOU
A LEMON.
I THINK HE WROTE A THOUSAND
TIMES BETTER AFTER HE LOST HIS
VOICE THAN BEFORE HE DID BEFORE
-- BEFORE IN SOME WAYS, AS
TERRIBLE AS A COURSE IT WAS, IT
WAS A BLESSING FOR HIM AS A
WRITER AND A THINKER THAT HE
COULD LAY OUT HIS PHILOSOPHY OF
LIFE HIS AESTHETIC AND HIS
POLITICS IN A WAY HE NEVER HAD
BEFORE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT IS IT ABOUT
THE SHOW THAT MADE HIM SO
SUCCESSFUL.
THE TWO OF THEM CO-HOSTED FOR 23
24 YEARS.
>> A LOT OF CRITICS WENT ON T.V.
AND TALKED AND WERE NOT
CHALLENGED BY ANYBODY BUT THEY
WERE VERY, VERY DIFFERENT
PEOPLE.
YOU HAD SISKEL WHO WAS VERY
PRICKLEY AND SCATTER SHOT AND
REALLY KIND OF MOODY AND NOT
THAT MUCH OF AN INTELLECTUAL AND
ROGER WHO WAS -- WHO MANAGED TO
BE VERY, VERY CENTERED AND TO
KIND OF PEOPLE THE DISCUSSION ON
TRACK AND THEY TAUGHT US NOT
JUST HOW TO THINK ABOUT MOVIES--
WHICH I THINK WE KNEW HOW TO DO,
BUT HOW TO TALK ABOUT THEM.
DO SO WE DIDN'T JUST SIT THERE
AND SAY "I LIKED IT, I LIKED IT,
TOO, LET'S GIVE IT A YES."
THEY ACTUALLY ENGAGED WITH EACH
OTHER.
THEY THOUGHT.
THEY AIRED DIFFERENT WORLD VIEWS
DIFFERENT PERSONALITIES,
DIFFERENT TEMPERAMENTS.
AND I THINK THEY CREATED A
TEMPLATE FOR A LOT OF SHOWS THAT
FOLLOWED-- NONE OF THEM ANYWHERE
NEAR AS GOOD AS THE ORIGINAL
SISKEL AND EBERT "AT THE
MOVIES."
>> Sreenivasan: DID GETTING A
THUMBS UP OR THUMBS DOWN HAVE A
MEASURABLE DIFFERENCE ON A
MOVIE?
>> OH, SURE IT DID.
LOOK, THE PHRASE "TWO THUMBS UP"
HAS PASSED INTO THE LEXICON.
THERE ARE PEOPLE STILL NOW DAYS
WHO SAY "I GIVE IT TWO THUMBS
UP" EVEN IF IT'S THEIR OWN
THUMBS.
YES, YOU KNOW, IT WAS -- ROGER
OFTEN LAMENTED THAT, YOU KNOW,
QUOTE ADS WERE ALL REDUCED TO
SILLY SUPERLATIVES AND
ADJECTIVES AND I ONCE REMINDED
HIM TO HIS GREAT IRRITATION THAT
AS MUCH AS HE WANTED TO SEE MORE
INTELLIGENT QUOTED AS, A LOT OF
IT WAS TWO BIG THUMBS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IF YOU COULD
WIN OVER EBERT AND SISKEL YOU
KNEW THERE WAS GOING TO BE AN
AUDIENCE.
YOU SEE, EBERT DIDN'T THINK JUST
ABOUT HIS OWN RESPONSES.
AND HE DIDN'T THINK ABOUT THE
HISTORY OF CINEMA.
I MEAN, HE DID BUT FIRST AND
FOREMOST HE THOUGHT ABOUT YOU
THE VIEWER AT HOME, WHAT ARE YOU
GOING TO MAKE OF THIS.
WHAT CAN WE LEARN FROM THIS?
HOW CAN WE SUPPORT THIS FILM
MAKER OR THAT FILM MAKER?
IT'S REALLY AN INSPIRING LEGACY.
>> Sreenivasan: IT SEEMS EVEN
FACEBOOK STOLE THE THUMBS UP FOR
THE "LIKE" BUTTON, RIGHT?
>> HE DID COPYRIGHT IT, THOUGH.
>> Sreenivasan: DID HE REALLY.
>> YES, HE D.
OH, YEAH.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ARE YOU
GOING TO REMEMBER ABOUT HIM AS A
PEER?
I'M SURE THERE'S HUNDREDS OF
MOVIES THAT THE TWO OF YOU
DISAGREED ON BUT WHEN YOU READ
HIS WORK AND COMPARED IT TO YOUR
OWN WHAT WILL LEAP OUT AT YOU?
>> ROGER NEVER REALLY REPRESENT
A CERTAIN AESTHETIC.
HIS WRITING WASN'T
TRANSFORMATIVE THE WAY PAULINE
KALE WAS WHOSE AESTHETIC WE
STILL ARGUE ABOUT.
THAT PUBLIC PERSONA, THE PUBLIC
DEMENTIA, HE REMINDED THAT
MOVIES WEREN'T SOME PRIVATE
THING THAT WE SAT IN THE DARK
BATHED IN THE LIGHT OF THE
SCREEN.
THAT EACH AND EVERY ONE OF US,
OUR OWN RESPONSES WERE A
STARTING POINT FOR A LARGER
DEBATE, A LARGER CULTURAL
DEBATE.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN, WHAT IS
THIS ARTIST TRYING TO DO?
HOW CAN MOVIES TRANSFORM ALL OF
OUR LIVES, TEACH US WHAT IT IS
TO TRANSSEND OUR MUNDANE REALITY
THAT'S WHAT INSPIRES ME MOST
ABOUT HIS LEGACY.
NOT JUST EVEN SO MUCH ANY
INDIVIDUAL THINGS HE WROTE,
ALTHOUGH HE WAS A FINE WRITER,
HE WAS AN AN ELUSIVE WRITER.
IT WAS THE -- IT WAS THAT PUBLIC
DIMENSION TO WHAT HE DID THAT IS
HUGELY IMPORTANT.
>> Brown:.
>> Sreenivasan: DAVID EDELSTEIN,
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
NORTH KOREA MOVED A MISSILE TO
ITS EAST COAST AS THE LATEST IN
A SERIES OF ESCALATING THREATS
AND THE GOVERNOR OF CONNECTICUT
SIGNED SOME OF THE TOUGHEST GUN
CONTROL MEASURES IN THE NATION
INTO LAW.
>> Brown: ONLINE, THE LATEST IN
A SERIES OF DEBATES OVER
SPENDING-VERSUS-SAVING.
TODAY'S ARGUMENT: HOW MODERN
ECONOMISTS GET IT WRONG.
THAT'S ON "MAKING SENSE".
TODAY MARKS THE FORTY-FIFTH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING JUNIOR.
WE HAVE A TRIBUTE FROM A CLASS
OF WASHINGTON, D.C. FOURTH
GRADERS.
WATCH THAT ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR" FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
OTHERS.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.